In the previous section we have already learned how to download and install the compiler and the ide
required for developing c++ program.
Hope you're ready with the setup if you're not ready i suggest you go back to the previous section
and watch the videos and get the environment ready on your P.C..
in this video I'm going to show you the skeleton or the basic programs of C++ in the following video
you will find a demo.
How to start a new project and how to develop the first program.
So here first of all let us start with the skeleton of a C++ program.
See this is a skeleton already i have kept it ready here.
You have to start a new project.
Let us say the project name is first and the program.
First.cpp
So you have to start this one the inside that this is what you have to get done.
So every c++ program basically looks like this.
So let us understand what are these elements.
So I'll start from this point.
See this is the starting point of the C++ program.
Main function.
This is main and their own brackets are there for the function.
The main function is the starting point of C++ program.
Then what does this int.
This is called as a return type of a function.
We will be learning about the return types and on afterwards but right now as a formality you have to
write it always and when you have written int their at this place then you have to write return zero at
the end of the main function.
And this is the body of a main function back that is the opening flower bracket and closing flower bracket. Now
what all you have to write on.
You have to write it here inside the body of main function.
Then what does it mean by this #include.
I'll explain it.
So first of all I will write something here inside the main function and show you.
So here as a first program I want to give a welcome message so I will write Hello world.
So I want this program to print on the screen hello world.
when I run the program.
So how to print something on the screen. so for
printing anything on the monitor that is on the screen from your c++ program.
There is a built in object available in C++ that is C out C means console, out that is console out so
monitor is treated as a console.
That is output console then there is something that is keyboard that is useful for taking input right.
So does this input console.
So it means for that there is C in Yes c out for monitor console out, C in that console in for keyboard
that is taking any input from the keyboard.
So let us use the c out and print something on the monitor.
So as I said we will be printing Hello.
World.
So we have to use this two angular brackets.
This is called as insertion operator insertion operator.
We have to use this one for printing anything.
Then here inside the double quotes I will say hello
World.
So what ever the messages that you have to print.
You have to give it in double quotes.
So this is a string or a message.
It's a string or a message.
This is given to C out.
So it will be printed on the monitor.
So when you run the program.
Hello world will appear here .
hello world will appear here, so Cout is a object used for printing anything on the monitor.
And if you see this double less than symbol, two less than symbols both are on the keyboard you will find
less than symbol for two times.
So that is acting as a insertion operator if you'll feel it.
It looks like as if inserting this one in Cout.
So once I inserted it would appear on a monitor.
It gives the feeling that you are inserting something.
So that's why it is called as insertion object.
So this how we can print now next thing where the cout came from ?
We know that for every C++ program we should write down
Int, main, flower bracket, close and return then whatever we are writing here.
where this C out came from? the C out object as well as C in object.
These are present inside this iostream header file so actually this is a library.
Library will contain the collection off of build in objects or functions that a programmer can use and
easily write the program.
This is provided by C++ compiler.
When we install the compiler you will get the libraries.
So there are many libraries we will learn about them slowly so whatever your requirement is depending
on that you can include the library in your program so everything from the library will be attached
to your program and you can use it.
So cout is present in this library.
That is iostream library for including that one we include bytes name or bytes header file so in
some compilers even you have to write down iostream.h right.
If this doesn't work in your compiler then you write iostream.h or else  just iostream now.
I will remove these things and I'll explain a few more things about this one.
The cout as it is present there.
We cannot use it directly.
We have to write down namespace so I have to write a std double column.
The symbol you will find on the keyboard.
You hit it for two times so this is Scope resolution.
Colon and colon.
That is double colon.
This is called us scope resolution so the correct method is right down std scope resolution and cout and
whatever you want.
If this is how we use that cout object.
Now this is a perfect program.
If you run it you will get hello world on the screen.
Now one more thing if you're writing a very lengthy program or bigger program and you have to use
cout many times then instead of writing it like this there is another way of doing this using that
C out as well as cin object. the other method is, here we can write using namespace, using namespace
and this namespace std.
So when we say that we are using this namespace we don't have to see this one.
We can directly write cout it  means that we are using that namespace means whatever it is there inside
that namespace we are using it.
And what does it mean by namespace.
See all the build in things available in this header that is library are grouped under one name
that is STD so for using that we have to say using namespace name. now more about namespace.
We will learn in this course we will find our topic.
There is a video available is a separate topic so everything about namespaces are discussed at their
writing.
STD here is better than saying that we are using namespace because we are not using everything from
the namespace.
We want just Cout.
So writing a std colon and cout is better.
But it is easy for the beginners to just write cout so I may be using cout many times but on the top
I will writing namespace and here I will write cout just cout so that's all it is the first
program.
Let us quickly look at the things that we have leaned see we have learned that every C program will have
a main function main function should write integer and as it is done.
So here we should write return zero then inside the flower backets.
That is body whatever you want you can write on here.
So in my program I am just displaying it. so for that COUT is an object that is already available.
I'm using it for printing something on the screen.
The cout is present in the header file so I should include the header file and this header file
is having this namespace so I should also use that namespace just including the header file is not
sufficient.
You have to use that namespace inside that one.
If you don't want to use it then you can write on STD scope resolution here.
Then the next you I will show you some simple programs of C++.